

Term Project 2016
Deliverable #1
Edward Shin
edwardsh
Section A


Project Proposal:

For my term project, I am interested in making a 2D version of an 
old iPhone game called Edge (2008). My main goal in this project is 
two create a similar game to the 3D version of Edge while creating a
2D environment that captures the same thrill of the game while giving 
it new features that improves this experience. 

The main features I need to code include the cube, which will be a 
square since this will be made 2D. I need to create an effective program 
that rolls the cube on its corners and could be stand on one corner. I 
also need apply the physics involved with gravity and collisions.

For those features, I obviously will use tKinter and try to manipulate the 
keyPressed features to allow the player to control the square's balance. I 
may also need to create somce code that snaps the player cube in place to 
keep the system consistent.

I will need to use the math module to accomplish the square's behavior and 
possibly the os module to save the player's progress.




Competitive Analysis:

Edge is similar to my game since this is the very game I am creating in 2D.
What I love about the game is how the world moves with the cube to keep the 
player moving and the experience dynamic. I especially love how they applied 
a lot of math and physics to create interesting behaviors for the cube. The 
one thing that I think could have made the game more interesting is if the 
cube could stand on the side. Manipulating graivty is a possible feature that I 
could incorporate to create a wonderful 2-D experience.

There was a sequel to Edge called Edge Extended. It is basically the same, except
it adds an AI that tries to hinder the player's progress. I really enjoyed watching 
how it gives the feeling of not feeling alone in the game. I think it would have been 
greater if there was some interaction with the antagonist.

Another similar product I found was a simple puzzle game called On the Edge. It 
does a fairly decent job of rolling the cube on the edge. The itself, however, is 
tragically static, as the world does not move like in Edge. As much as possible, I 
want to move the world or at least create a livelier scene so that the experience 
is more than just staring at a screen.


